
# Follow-up 20 August 2021


## Arxiv Sanity Preserver

This is a follow-on from the last follow-up (18 August) where I
mentioned arxiv-sanity. The site itself is a little hard to find -
it's <https://another-arxiv-sanity.site/>. A good introduction is [in
this video](https://youtu.be/S2GY3gh6qC8). The creator, Andrej Karpathy, is the chief data
scientist of Tesla Motors today. He came up with this
in 2016. This site would be a suitable subject for a short
presentation followed by a discussion. Identifying and searching
through relevant research is a huge issue for any developer. I
don't know if the code for Arxiv Sanity Preserver is public or if
it is private, like Google's search engine. It would be a huge
advantage to know the algorithm for result validation.


## Data science

I've mentioned it here and there - this AI seminar is part of
Lyon's new data science program. I gave a high level definition of
data science as an interdisciplinary field. It overlaps with (most
of AI, in the form of machine learning, or ML), and requires
skills in three areas: (1) maths and stats, (2) programming and
computing, and (3) domain knowledge (i.e. deep knowledge of, or
experience with, a practical application involving data in the
real world). A quick survey revealed that seven of you were
focused on (2), and two each on (1) and (3). Within this program,
the current AI seminar will be followed by two other classes - (A)
one focusing on hardware, e.g. involving IoT, the other (B) on
software, on machine learning (statistics and algorithms). My
spring 2022 classes DSC 201 (machine learning) and CSC 420
(operating systems) will address these.


## Consciousness

This is one of the perennial problems of the search for AGI,
Artificial General Intelligence. In the session, I mentioned a
recent discovery - a talk by mathematical physicist Sir Roger
Penrose on consciousness and physics ([The Artificial Intelligence
Channel, 2017](#orgea04c31)). This is about a very limited aspect of
consciousness, namely understanding mathematical
things. Fascinating talk by one of the great minds of our time.


## Agile management

The projects in all my courses use the agile management method
Scrum. Rather than introduce this in the abstract, we will
practice it. The curve on the whiteboard showed my ambition for
you: you should have about equal workload and enthusiasm
throughout the term, and finish early, before finals take your
breath and energy away. The other aspect of Scrum that is really
important is customer dialogue. In this course, you have to create
an application (ideally in a small team), and I'll play your
customer (or project owner, in Scrum speech).


## The Internet of Things

IoT is the name for a network of machines. They are often small,
with little processing power, like a micro controller, but strong
in large numbers. There's even a "[maker movement](https://makerfreedom.com/what-is-the-maker-movement-5-things-you-should-know/)" ([Powell, 2020](#org8198420)) -
very popular in Europe - that focuses mainly on these small
devices and uses them to demonstrate and teach computing at the
hardware level (device examples are: BBC micro:bit, Raspberry Pi,
Arduino). I've got a couple of these with whom I've played - this
will also have a place in my operating systems course (CSC
420). For our seminar, it is important that IoT is increasingly
acquiring AI, or more specifically, ANI (Artificial Narrow
Intelligence, as opposed to AGI, or Artificial General,
i.e. human, intelligence). AGI is a continuation of the past
interest in AI, while ANI has become popular only relatively
recently, but dominates the field nowadays (e.g. in the form of
"deep learning" applications, deeply layered neural networks).


## Swarm intelligence

The idea that a very large number of individually stupid devices
or entities, when networked, can attain intelligence, has
intrigued thinkers for decades. One of them is the Pole [Stanislaw
Lem](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stanis%C5%82aw_Lem) (coincidentally, the Polish Parliament has declared 2021 the
Stanislaw Lem year), a philosopher and science fiction writer. Two
of his books are "[Solaris](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Solaris_(novel))", about a thinking ocean that covers an
entire water planet, and "[The Invincible](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Invincible)" that describes how
nanobots defeat an invincible spaceship. Look for Lem's writing,
he's a clever classic. "Solaris" was also filmed by the visionary
Russian director Tarkovsky (and there's a US remake with George
Clooney, too).


## References

<a id="orgea04c31"></a> [The Artificial Intelligence Channel (5 Sep
2017). Sir Roger Penrose - How can Consciousness Arise Within the
Laws of Physics? Online](https://youtu.be/h_VeDKVG7e0)

<a id="org8198420"></a> [Powell B (16 Jan 2020). What is the Maker Movement? 5
Things You Should Know [blog]. Online: makerfreedom.com.](https://makerfreedom.com/what-is-the-maker-movement-5-things-you-should-know/)

