
# Follow-up - 18 August 2021

I write a follow-up whenever I said stuff, or put stuff on the
board that emerged during a session. I upload it to GitHub where
you can comment, ask further, remind me of something I promised and
forgot, or raise any other issue. This may show up in the weekly
tests (and then also in the final exam, which is sourced from the
tests). I'll demonstrate GitHub and how to work with it in the
first week.

Don't worry about the amount (or type) of information contained
herein: I write these things up partly for myself, and partly for
those interested, but I don't expect you to learn or know them at
any point during this class. And I'll cease writing them up when I
run out of time, which I often do towards the end of term.

As part of your term project, you will come across a lot of new
technical terms. To sort through them, you'll need to create a
glossary. These follow-ups are my glossary for the course.

([Whiteboard](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1Klhy3muIH7_GwN4aNRjrTW5507l237Zo?usp=sharing))


## On ignorance

This relates to the sentence I put on the blackboard at the start
(not actually a quote - or at least none I have ever heard):

> "The ignorance of the teacher is the bliss of the student."

I hope this didn't make me look too bad! There were several
serious issues behind it: (1) I'm necessarily ignorant: data
science is a vast, interdisciplinary field, overlapping to a large
extent (certainly more than 50% though that does of course depend
on one's definitions) with AI, which is another vast,
interdisciplinary field. It would be very hard for a lecturer to
know most about either of these, and harder even, to teach it to
undergraduates in the course of one seminar (no matter how
advanced). Instead, what you get is a foundation to move on if you
wish. (2) If a teacher acts in good faith and does not pretend to
know stuff he or she doesn't actually know, it's easier to go on a
journey of discovery together. (3) There is this other saying (I
don't know by whom, perhaps Confucius?): when the student is
ready, the (right) teacher will appear. This is a little like that
in that it's a paradox. Interestingly, paradoxa count as models,
too. I should write an article or a diary post about this - (too)
many thoughts are rushing in!


## GitHub

I'll introduce it in class, no need to say much about it
here. GitHub is the premier hosting side of code for
developers. There are many others. I use it for course
documents. There is also a "GitHub classroom" site and application
suite, but I haven't really looked at it much. If anyone knows
more, let me know!


## Time management

Francesco Cirillo, the creator of the "Pomodoro" method ([Cirillo,
2018](#orgcc94a70)), is a good friend of mine (though an Italian, he lives and
works in Berlin). I like this and other time management methods,
but if you want to beat procrastination and bad (?) time
management, look at it as "risk management": assess the risk of
being late, or being on time, for every instance, hold it against
the requirements of your character, your culture etc. Time
management is not a matter of just the right recipe. Public
discussions of this issue are often embarrassingly shallow and
useless.


## IMRaD

IMRaD stands for Introduction + Method + Results + Discussion. It
is the standard format for scientific publications. There is a
little more to it, but not much: the proof lies in the pudding
(the doing), not in the concept. I made a short video about it a
little while back [(Birkenkrahe, 2016)](#orgc28dad1).


## arxiv.org

This is a preprint server - a place to upload and download
scientific papers before they are properly published by a journal
(print or online). There is also arxiv-sanity, an AI-driven app
that selects papers for you based on profile and
preferences. Check it out.


## References

<a id="orgcc94a70"></a> [Cirillo, F (2018). The Pomodoro Technique. Currency.](https://www.amazon.com/Pomodoro-Technique-Acclaimed-Time-Management-Transformed/dp/1524760706/)

<a id="orgc28dad1"></a> [Birkenkrahe, M (2016). Research Writing with
IMRaD [Video]. Online: YouTube.](https://youtu.be/dip7UwZ3wUM)

