
# Followup 30 August 2021

[[Whiteboard](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1J9WtDXQNT8DQiPT9G5Gx0TEiBr8SeC3F?usp=sharing)]


## This Week's Must Do's

1.  By Wednesday: identify a (solo) presentation topic and post it
    in the [discussion forum](https://github.com/birkenkrahe/ai482/discussions/4).
2.  By Friday: find a team - 2-3 people with whom to work on the AI
    application challenge prepare for and present at the sprint
    reviews (see [schedule](https://github.com/birkenkrahe/ai482/blob/main/schedule.md)).


## Easiest way to find a topic

Use the textbook, AIMA. Any chapter of that book will be a
suitable presentation topic. In most cases, a whole chapter will
be too much, and a subchapter will suffice: notice that it took us
an entire week to get through chapter 1.1 of AIMA. 

The more mathematical chapters, or those dealing with algorithms,
may be more suitable if you have a mathematical mind. If you're
interested in applications and business, focus on that. If you're
into programming and computing tech, go there. Some chapter are
philosophical and deal with difficult questions of ethics etc.

Whatever you pick, make sure that you don't start from a zero
baseline, i.e. assuming nothing. Use the fact that you are seniors
and show off what you already know - stats, algorithms, design,
whatever.


## Creating questions on what you've just learnt

This sounds as difficult as it is! I did not mean for it to sound
trivial, either. There are a few tricks though:

-   Begin with (technical) terms or concepts that you cannot define,
    and ask "what does this mean?"
-   Check out Internet sites like Quora, Stackoverflow, or Reddit
    for questions that others asked about the topic.
-   Post the topic to friends, colleagues or family and ask them
    what they'd like to know<sup><a id="fnr.1" class="footref" href="#fn.1">1</a></sup>.
-   Imagine having to explain the topic to a 5, a 10, a 15 and a
    20-year old person<sup><a id="fnr.2" class="footref" href="#fn.2">2</a></sup>.


## References

<a id="org60f5882"></a> WIRED (25 June 2018). Quantum Computing Expert
Explains One Concept in 5 Levels of Difficulty | WIRED
[Video]. [Online: youtube.com.](https://youtu.be/OWJCfOvochA)


# Footnotes

<sup><a id="fn.1" href="#fnr.1">1</a></sup> Since everybody is an expert on something else, you'll be
surprised about the questions that you get. They can be quite
hard. Even a question like "how would this benefit me?" can be
enlightening because you may never have thought about it for that
person, who might be a cop, a plummer, an actor or a librarian.

<sup><a id="fn.2" href="#fnr.2">2</a></sup> This is a format that WIRED magazine developed, check out this
video ([WIRED, 2018](#org60f5882)). I once (as a 22-year-old) spent an entire 8-hour
train ride from Hamburg to Munich in Germany explaining particle
physics to an elderly lady. It really showed me what I did, and what I
did not know (yet).
